The city Cali in Colombia may have the largest variety of birds compared to any other city in the world with 562 different species.
The chicken is the closest living relative to the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
Many birds kept as pets, including doves, parakeets, and lovebirds, enjoy living in pairs for companionship.
The smallest bird egg belongs to the hummingbird and is the size of a pea.  
The largest bird egg, from which the ostrich hatches, is the size of a cantaloupe.
A bird’s eye takes up about 50 percent of its head; our eyes take up about 5 percent of our head.
The penguin is the only bird that can swim, but not fly. It is also the only bird that walks upright.
Owls turn their heads almost 360○ (a complete circle) but they cannot move their eyes.
Chickens have over 200 distinct noises they make for communicating.
When it comes to birds, the males tend to have the more glamorous feather shape, coloration, songs, and dances. 
Female birds of many species choose their mate based entirely on how attractive they find them.
It is estimated that one third of all bird owners turn on a radio for their pet when they leave the house.
According to National Geographic, scientists have an answer for the age old dispute over which came first, the chicken or the egg.
The first bird domesticated by humans was the goose.
Kiwi birds are blind, so they hunt by smell.
Some breeds of chickens can lay colored eggs. The Ameraucana and Araucana can lay green or blue eggs.
The common phrase “eat like a bird” should mean something quite different!  Many birds eat twice their weight in food each day.
A group of larks is called an exaltation, a group of chickens is called a peep, a group of geese is called a gaggle.
A group of ravens is called a murder, and a group of owls is called a parliament.
Chickens that lay brown eggs have red ear lobes. There is a genetic link between the two.
Crows have the largest cerebral hemispheres (brains), relative to body size, of any avian family.
Mockingbirds can imitate many sounds, from a squeaking door to a cat meowing.
The Sword-billed Hummingbird is the only bird with a bill longer than its body.
There are over 9,500 species of birds in the world. 
Birds are the most widespread of all animals around the world.
Approximately 2/3 of all the bird species are found in tropical rain forests.
Hoatzin chicks have two claws on each wing. When they climb out of the nest, they use their claws to hold on to mangrove trees. 
The longest feathers ever seen were on a chicken in Japan. Its tail feathers measured 34.7 feet (10.59 m) long.
To make them more lightweight, most birds do not have bladders to store urine.
A bird’s lungs are much more complicated and efficient and take up more space than those of mammals, such as humans.
The Australian pelican has the longest bill of any bird in the world. It is nearly 2 feet (0.5 m) in length.
The only bird with nostrils at the end of its beak is the kiwi. It often snorts.
Unlike most birds that sing, a woodpecker will drum its beak against a tree. Other woodpeckers can identify birds by their drumming.
The most talkative bird in the world is the African gray parrot. One parrot could say over 800 words.
Many birds, such as starlings, sing notes too high for humans to hear.
The chicks of large bird species often take the longest to hatch. Emu chicks, for example, take 60 days to hatch.
Small songbirds can hatch in just 2 weeks.
A green woodpecker can eat as many as 2,000 ants per day.
The Japanese crested ibis is one of the rarest birds in the world. Probably fewer than 50 crested ibises are alive today.
The 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill in Alaska polluted approximately 1,180 miles of coastline and killed up to 100,000 seabirds.
You can see a Guam Kingfisher at the Philadelphia Zoo. None exist in the wild.
Hummingbirds are the only birds that can fly backwards.
The bird with the most feathers is the whistling swan, with up to 25,000 feathers. 
Falconry was developed more than 4,000 years ago in eastern and central Asia. Birds were used because they could kill animals beyond the range of a hunter’s weapon.
Coalminers often used canaries to detect poisonous levels of carbon monoxide gas. Miners knew that if the canary passed out, they were in danger, too.
The marsh warbler can mimic more than 80 different birds. Other renowned mimics include mockingbirds and lyrebirds.
A pelican’s pouch-like beak can hold up to 2.5 gallons of water at a time. The beak will shrink to squeeze out the water before the pelican swallows its food.
A vulture named the Lammergeyer will fly with bones high in the air and then drop them onto rocks. It will then eat the smashed bones.
The bird that lays the smallest egg in the world is the bee hummingbird. Its egg is just under 0.5" x 0.25" and weighs a mere 0.02 oz.
Though it looks like a bird’s knee is bending backwards, what is bending backward is actually its ankle. Below its ankle is an extended foot bone, leading to the toes.
A bird’s real knee is usually hidden by feathers.
Corpus Christi in Texas is also known as the "Birdiest City in North America" for all the different species that pass through in April.
The ostrich lays the biggest egg in the world. It measures 7" x 5" and weighs 3 pounds. 
The biggest egg for the size of the mother is laid by the kiwi and is a third of the weight of the bird.
The Malleefowl is famed for making a huge compost pile for its nest. Its eggs are incubated by the heat given off by the rotting vegetation.
Social weaverbirds live in huge communal nests that look like a huge haystack spread across a treetop. 
Some weaverbird nests can weigh a few tons, have over 400 birds living in them, and may be 100 years old.
The heaviest bird of prey is the Andean condor. It can weigh up to 12kg.
The most common wild bird in the world is the red-billed Quelea, with an estimated adult breeding population of 1.5 billion pairs. 
The most common nonwild bird is the chicken.
Many scientists believe that birds evolved from dinosaurs during the Mesozoic Era about 150 million years ago.
The flamingos' pink color is from the beta-carotene in their crustacean and plankton diet.
Flamingos pair for a lifetime. Some stay with their mates for 50 years or more.
In the United States alone, there are over 40 million pet birds.
A bird’s feathers weigh more than its skeleton.
The type of diet a bird eats in the wild is directly related to the shape of a bird’s beak.
While most male birds do not have a penis, the Argentine Lake Duck’s penis can extend 17", the longest of any bird known.
Approximately 75% of wild birds live for less than a year. The larger the bird, the more likely it is to live longer. 
The large wandering albatross can live for up to 80 years.
Gentoo Penguins are the fastest swimming birds, reaching speeds of 22 mph (36 kph). 
Emperor Penguins can stay under water for up to 18 minutes.
Arctic terns have the longest annual migration of any bird. They fly 25,000 miles (40,000 m) from the Arctic to the Antarctic and then back again.
The bird with the greatest wingspan of any other bird is the Wandering Albatross at up to 11.8 ft (3.63 m).
Bar-headed Geese fly across the Himalayas, the highest mountains in the world. They fly nearly 5 miles (over 8,000 m) up in the sky, almost as high as jet planes. 
The highest-flying bird is the Griffon Vulture. In 1973, one collided with an airplane more than 6.8 miles above the Ivory Coast in Africa.
The largest, tallest, and heaviest bird in the world is the ostrich. Male ostriches can reach up to 9 ft. tall (2.7 m) and weigh up to 350 lb. (160 kg). 
Ostriche eyes and are even larger than their brains.
The song of a European wren is made of more than 700 different notes a minute and can be heard 1,650 feet (500 m) away.
The ostrich is the only bird that willingly takes care of other females’ eggs.
Ostriches do not bury their heads in the sand when danger is near. But they have been seen to lie on the ground with their long neck stretched out flat if they want to hide.
The biggest bird that ever existed on Earth is the flightless elephant bird, which is now extinct. It weighed about 1000 lb. (450 kg.).
Elephant birds died out 400 years ago, but people still find pieces of their tough-shelled eggs.
The Emperor Penguin is the only bird that lays its eggs in the middle of winter.
Oilbirds eat oil palm fruits, which make the birds oily too. People near the caves where the oilbirds lived used to trap the oilbirds and boil them down for the oil.
The fastest flying bird in a dive is the Peregrine Falcon. It averages speeds of over 110 mph (180 kph).
Oilbirds are the only birds that use echolocation the way that bats do. 
Oilbirds are the only nocturnal fruit-eating birds in the world.
Birds have three 'fingers' on each wing.
Birds typically have two, three, or four toes. A typical perching bird has three pointing forward, and one back. 
Birds that run on hard ground have only three toes, all pointing forward. 
Ostriches only have two toes, which are shaped like the hoof of an antelope.
Sooty Terns can sleep in the air.
The Sooty Tern spends more time in the air than any other bird. It takes off over the ocean and flies for at least 3 years without settling on water or land. 
Swifts spend most of their lives in the air. They can even sleep in the air by gliding on air currents with their wings outstretched.
Birds don’t fall off of a branch when they sleep because tendond in their toes automatically clench around the twig they are standing on. 
The wishbone (or “merrythought” bone) is a bird’s fused collarbone. The strongest fliers have the widest angles in their wishbones. 
Not all birds have equally hollow bones. Those that dive into water and those that fly very fast have less air in their long bones.
The linear flight formations of migratory birds are called echelons, with the most common shapes being the “V” or the “J.” 
Birds fly in formation to save energy and to facilitate communication among the birds.
The word "parakeet" literally means "long tail."
An albatross can soar for as long as six hours without moving its wings.
The heaviest bird in the air is the Kori Bustard, from East and South Africa. It weighs about 31 lb. (14 kg.), with the largest on recorded being 40 lb. (18 kg.). 
A Ruby-throated Hummingbird, which weighs less than 0.2 oz., has to beat its wings more than 52 times a second to hover in front of a flower.
What keeps a bird up in the air is the shape of its wings. The first humans to discover how birds stay aloft were Australian Aborigines when they invented the boomerang.
The fastest level flight by a bird has been seen in both the Spine-tailed Swift and the Red-breasted Merganser (a duck). They have flown at 100 mph.
The slowest flying bird is the American Woodcock. It can fly at just 5 mph (8 kph). 
The Rufous hummingbird is the smallest migrant bird. It is less than 4 in. (9 cm) long and flies every year from Alaska to Mexico, a round trip of 3,800 miles (6,400 km).
Lighthouses are dangerous for birds. The beams attract birds, especially in misty conditions, and many are killed when they fly into the glass.
Birds sense winter is coming by 1) changes in hormones that cause them to put on fat, 2) the changing length of the day, and 3) sensing small changes in air pressure.
Crows can recognize and remember human faces, particularly faces they associate with bad experiences. They can share their grudge against a specific person with other crows.
The Bald Eagle builds the largest tree nest of all birds, measuring about 2.9 m across. The largest nest ever found was nearly 10 ft. wide and weighed close to 3 tons.
Woodcocks and many ducks have their eyes placed at the sides of their heads so that they have a 360-degree field of vision.
A special arrangement of blood vessels cools the blood going out to the feet and warms the blood coming back, so even when standing on the ice, birds don’t lose too much heat.
Both the Bee and the Vervain Hummingbirds build the smallest nests of all birds, measuring 3/4" across and 1.2" deep.
The most dangerous bird in the world is the Cassowary. With one kick it can kill its enemy.
Birds that are raised for meat and eggs (poultry) are the largest source of protein eaten by humans.
To attract a mate, a male Frigate bird will blow up its red throat pouch. The pouch can be as big as a person’s head.
Over time, many birds have lost their ability to fly. Being flightless does have advantages.
A flightless bird doesn’t need to develop large flight muscles or burn up the energy that flying requires. 
A flightless bird can get by with less food, which means it can survive in places where food is scarce.
A woodpecker’s tongue can be up to 4" long. It stores this long tongue through a specialized opening at the back of its neck, between the skull and skin.
The seagulls in the Alfred Hitchcock movie The Birds (1963) were fed a mixture of wheat and whisky so they would stand around and not fly too much.
The Fieldfare birds gang up on enemies and force it to the ground. Then the Fieldfares fly into the air and drop lethal poop on the bird.
Birds play a central role in many creation myths. Birds are also often associated with the journey of the soul after death or as mediators between the dead and living. 
The game Angry Birds has sold more than 7 million copies. The game was made by a team of just four people. 
Wind farms kill approximately a half-million birds per year in the United States, according to a 2008 Fish and Wildlife study. 
Approximately 200 people have died since 1988 because of airborne collision between airplanes and birds. 
Bird strikes cause $300 million of damage each year to aircraft. The first recorded bird strike was in 1905, when Orville Wright’s plane hit a bird and killed it.
In the novel To Kill a Mockingbird (1960), author Harper Lee used the mockingbird to symbolize innocence.
The smallest flightless bird is the Island Rail. This tiny bird lives on the remote island of Tristan da Cunha in the Atlantic Ocean and is just 5" long
The earliest known bird is the Archaeopteryx. It lived during the Jurassic period 150 million years ago. 
Vulture stomach acid is 10 to 100 times stronger than human stomach acid.
Vultures have stomach acid so corrosive that they can digest carcasses infected with anthrax.
No living being other than birds have feathers. The main function is to help them fly. 
Feathers waterproof birds and protect them from UV rays and other harmful elements.
Only one mammal can fly: the bat However, it flies differently from the bird. Insects also do not fly the same as birds.
A Bald Eagle is called “bald” because it is piebald (black and white), not because it doesn’t have any feathers.
Eleven percent of the world’s bird species is endangered. Draining wetlands and felling forests are the main causes of damage, but pollution and pesticides also play a part.
Before 1840, there were thousands of millions of passenger pigeons in North America. However, they were slaughtered for food until only one was left, a female called Martha.
Martha, the last passenger pigeon, died when she was 12 years old in 1914, in a zoo in Ohio.
More than 150 kinds of birds have become extinct since 1600, though many more may have died out that scientists don’t know about.
The word "swan" is derived from the Indo-European root *swen, meaning "to sound, to sing."
Someone who suffers from "anatidaephobia" believes that somewhere, somehow a duck or goose is constantly watching them.
There are more fake flamingos on Earth than real ones.
Though the term “eagle eyed” implies that eagles have keen vision, only the Wedge-tailed Eagle can see better than humans (2½ times better). 
Kestrels and falcons have about the same power of sight as we do.
The word "falcon" is from the Latin "falx," meaning "curved blade, pruning hook, sickle, war-scythe."
A flock of ravens is called an “unkindness” or a "conspiracy."
Esmeraldas Woodstar is one of the world's rarest and smallest hummingbirds, measuring barely 2½ inches long.
Esmeraldas Woodstar was thought to be extinct until it was rediscovered in 1990 after not being sighted since 1912.
About two-thirds of birds in North America are at risk of extinction due to climate change.
Pigeons aided the allied forces during WWII and saved many lives.
Bread doesn't contain many of the nutrients birds need. Use bird seed if you want to feed the locals.
For Hindus, pigeons are divine and associated with the love god, Kama Deva.
The Rothschild family owes some of its fortune to pigeons, who delivered finacial data faster than typical channels at the time.
Tawny Frogmouths may look and behave like owls, but they aren't owls. It's an evolutionary coincedence.
Charles Lindbergh once said "If I had to choose, I would rather have birds than airplanes."